= Puje, the first shaper in Nakapa =

Puje was the first shaper in the world of Nakapa, and most likely the being
with the most  impact on the world's history, as  they were responsible for
the event known as "The Shaping  of Nakapa". Their exact motives and origin
are unknown, as is with many shapers


== The arrival ==

Puje arrived  in Nakapa  when it  was still in  its primordial  ashen form,
about 4000 years before the beginning of the wanderish calendar.
    From the moment Puje arrived, they  began their work on changing Nakapa
so that  it would  conform to  their strict  idea of  order and  unity. And
perhaps Nakapa,  as an  opposite to  it by its  chaotic nature,  posed some
"moral enemy", which was why they chose it instead of some easier world. Or
perhaps it was just a result of their admittedly large amount of ambition.


== Puje in Wanderish mythos ==

In wanderish  mythos, Puje has been  split into two distinct  entities: The
Ashtree and Eknást.
    The Eknást  is only mentioned in  the wanderish creation story,  and is
said  to  be the  being  responsible  for  planting  the seed  which  would
eventually grow into the Ashtree.
    While technically not  being the same being according  to the wanderish
mythos.  They are  both  based on  Puje  in their  forms  before and  after
becoming the Ashtree.


== Puje in hollow dweller mythos ==

The hollow dweller mythos is the  only non-wanderian mythos to mention Puje
in some  form. Given that their  ancestors where the Ashfolk,  their mythos
has cast Puje in  the form of "ultimate evil". A  corrupting for, or being,
that suddenly came  to the world of  Nakapa and altered it as  they saw fit
without taking into consideration that the world had people living in it.
    Their mythos also  includes an opposing being by the  name of "Udla", a
resotoring force. Although it is unclear  if this concept came to be purely
as a response to  Puje's shaping of Nakapa, or if it is  based on some real
being.


---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----

See also 200 for more information about the Shaping of Nakapa
