= Aminu, Osila and Atvina =

Aminu,  Osila and  Atvina  were three  key characters  to  the events  that
happend right  before, during and after  the Wanderish Civil War.  As such,
they have retroactively earned the ire of many, be it earned or not.


== Aminu ==

Moiffe Aminu was a wanderer of rather humble origins, but throud unordinary
circumstances  was taken  to be  raised and  mentored by  the Okánet  while
young.  As  the world of Nakapa  was suffering from the  Tree-Sickness, the
Okánet  realise that  they could  quell or  even prevent  public unrest  by
beginning to circulate a prophesy of  the "Ash-Speaker", who would come and
cure the  Ashtree of  its ilness and  thus end the  calamity caused  by the
Tree-Sickness.
    Aminu, an  unknown to the  public, was chosen to  play the role  of the
Ash-Speaker.  A  backstory of  how  they  came  to  be under  the  Okánet's
mentorship was fabricated,  and evidence to the countraty  was snuffed out.
So, from  a relatively young  ages, Aminu was  fed tales of  their supposed
prophetical  role, which  would  eventually  come to  shape  much of  their
behaviour later in life.


== Osila ==

Osila   was  an   important  character   in  the   resistance  to   Aminu's
tyranny. Their origins are mostly unknown,  with the earliest accounts of a
person of  a similar description  being from  the small village  of Mojost,
that at the  further edges of the  Wanderish Empire. Osila was  short for a
wanderer, lacked  the characteristic branch  like horns, their  skin seemed
more  barklike than  other wanderers'  and it  was said  that their  speech
carried  a  distinct   "unwanderish"  quality  to  it.  As   such,  it  was
occasionally rumoured  that they weren't  a wanderer at all.  This combined
with their aggressive  anti-okánet stance even before  the Iśekejat, rained
them  their nickname  "Osila" (eng.   Odd  one). However,  as the  tensions
escalated, these rumours  were largely forgotten, and all  that remained of
them was the nickname that Osila fully adopted and used themselves.
    During the  Wanderish Civil War,  Osila quickly raise to  prominance as
the leader of the utsijále  (Liberators), the most efficient, organized and
successful of the Anti-Okánet factions.
