= The shaping of Nakapa =

The shaping of  Nakaka, "the Shaping" for short, is  the most consequential
event in  the entire history of  the world as caused  the circustances that
made the Shattering possible.
    However most  information of  the Shaping  only exists  in the  form of
Wanderish mythology,  thus many  other species  disregard it  completely as
"World-Breaker hogwash".


== Shaping in the Wanderish mythos ==

In the Wanderish  Mythology, the recount of the events  of the Shaping have
turned into  an overall story  of the creation  of Nakapa. This  story goes
something along the lines of:

   In the beginning,  the world was nothing but a  never ending ashen land.
   Then, from under the ash, sprouted a lone sapling.  The Sapling used the
   surrounding  dust as  its good  and grew,  and grew,  and grew  until it
   reached  all  the  way into  the  sky.   And  from  its roots  came  the
   Wanderers, the kin of the tree.

As  you can  see,  Puje  has been  complitely  removed  from the  Wanderish
retelling of the events of the  Shaping of Nakapa, and much more importance
is given to the Ashtree form of Puje as its own thing.


== Shaping in Hollow dweller mythos ==

While the Hollow  dweller mythos surrounding the Shaping might  be the most
grounded in reality, it too has  been altered over time. Their retelling of
the Shaping goes:

   A long time before, there was a world of potential. A world in which the
   people, our kind, could do as they  wanted and be as they were. But this
   was not  to be, for from  behind the veil  of the world arrived  a being
   with hunger and megalomania. It saw no  world, it saw now people. All it
   saw was a medium  to alter, a canvas on which to  paint their whims. And
   even as the world itself rejected, fought back against this vile malice,
   it did not care. Instead it  worked harder, till the skies shuddered and
   the ground wrapped. The old  was twisted, mutilated beyond normality. To
   save themselves, our ancestors hid beneath  the world as the surface was
   lost to  them......but one day  we shall emerge,  and the world  will be
   ours once more.

I must note  that the above version  is the retelling in  its most extreme,
radical form.  In the current time  said version is only  really told among
the  extremely devout  Hollow dwellers  still living  on the  shard cluster
where Great  Hollow was  before the Shattering.  Hollow dwellers  who moved
outside it either  believe in a less radicalised form  of the retelling, or
have dismissed  the whole  tale as  a mere story,  much like  the wanderish
species have done with the wanderish variant.


== Shaping in reality ==

A long time ago, time world of  Nakapa consisted of an endless, foggy ashen
expanse. This  form is  actually the  true form of  Nakapa and  despite the
seemingly lifeless state, it was home to beings known as "Ashfolk", who are
the akin  to the last universal  common ancestor for the  beings of Nakapa,
both sapient and  otherwise. Unlike us and the people  of Nakapa now, these
ashfolk were immortal beins who lived wherever and did whatever. Then Puje,
the first of the  Shapers, arrived in Nakapa. It is  not known what exactly
led to their arrival, whether it  was coincidence or if something in Nakapa
drew them in, but they arrived with a goal and a plan to reach it.
    Puje  was ambitious  even  for a  Shaper. They  were  not content  with
shaping only  parts of  any given  world. They wanted  to shape  the entire
world itself, and for  one reason or another they had  chosen Nakapa as the
target of this shaping. But Nakapa turned  out to be a hard world to shape,
as the  naturally chaotic fog  caused anything  Puje shaped to  revert back
into its ashen  state. So they, angered  by their lack of  success, came to
the conclusion that  the only way to  shape Nakapa would be  to remove said
fog from existance. To remove the fog,  Puje decided to store it inside the
only thing that it seemed unable to breakdown: themselves. Thus Puje shaped
themselves into what later became known as the Ashtree, a large tree at the
center of the known world. When the  fog was removed and its effects on the
world  were no  more,  the  world began  to  shape  itself, without  direct
influence from Puje. And the first creations from this were the Wanderers.
