= Okánet =

Moitatvife okánet (eng. clergy of the Ashtree), or just Okánet (clergy) for
short, was a powerful faction  in pre-shattering Wanderish Nakapa that made
up the  governing body of  the wanderish empire in-between  the unification
and the fall.


== Structure ==

In the  beginning the Okánet  was a theocratic  oligarchy, with a  group of
high-priests acting  as its leaders,  but after  the rise of  Aminu changed
into a  monarchy centered around Aminu  as Ash-Speaker. Based on  this, the
structure of the  Okánet can be divided into two  parts: Okánet and Aminu's
Okánet.


=== Okánet ===

The Okánet was  formed at the end of the  Imperial-era of wanderish history
and was only meant to serve an  advisory body to the ashkin, who previously
had  ruled as  an absolute  monarch. The  the current  ashkin, Alínez,  was
forced  into signing  off  on  the formation  of  the  Okánet after  having
allegedly lost their mind during their Campaings on the Farfront, and for a
time  the Okánet  served only  as an  advisory body.  But when  Alínez died
without a clear heir, it quickly  moved to capitalize on this and establish
itself  as  the  true  authority,  thus ending  the  Wanderish  Empire  and
establishing the Ashen  Theocracy, although this name would  only come into
use later.  At that time, the  term Wanderish Empire still  continued to be
used.
    In this form,  the Okánet was broken into multiple  levels of power. At
the top were the Okánetjé (High-Clerics),  who were seen as the most devout
followers of the  Ashtree and thus had "the ability  to accurately tell its
intentions", upon which  their position of power was  based. Admission into
the Okánetjé  was often a  long process and often  based on luck  more than
merit, since  it required  both proof  of extreme devotion  as well  as the
right time. The right time  was an important, ableit mostly uncontrollable,
factor as there could  only ever be a maximum of  27 Okátnetjé. This number
was based on an interpretation of the "Documents of Creation".
    Below the  Okátnetjé, were the Okallai  (devouts) to which the  rest of
the members of the Okánet belonged.  The power and status of Okallai varied
greatly and thus no clear level of authority can be given to the group as a
whole. However,  most Okallai where  is some position of  leadership within
the wanderish society.
    Under this was the rest of wanderish society, or the so called "astkat"
or "ordinary  folk" (from astei  "ordinary" and  "kat" people) who,  as the
name implies,  held no real  power and  thus remain largely  unmentioned in
official texts for the whole duration of the existance of the Okánet before
the events that happend under the leadership of Aminu.

=== Aminu's Okánet ===

Aminu's Okánet refers to the Okánet as it was in the final years before the
Shattering. It came to be slowly over time with it's "creation" starting at
the time Aminu was taken in by the Okánet, pushed along when Aminu was put
to play the main role in the Okánet's prophesy of the Ash-Speaker during
the Tree-Sickness (See 402) and finalized by the Emergency Act of 502 (5
BS, see 600).
