= Hollow Dwellers =

Hollow dwellers  are arguably the  most ancient species of  Nakapa, tracing
their  origin to  the Ashfolk,  who remained  unchanged by  the Shaping  of
Nakapa. They  achieved this by hiding  retreating under the surface  of the
changing world. However, while they may have hidden from the effects of the
Shaping, they  could not hide  from the effects of  time and as  they spent
longer  and  longer living  under  the  surface  of Nakapa,  these  Ashfolk
eventually became the Hollow dwellers.


== Physiology ==

Hollow dwellers  are short in stature,  with large dark eyes  and pale grey
skin. Time  spent living in  the carverns under  the surface of  the Nakapa
before  the Shattering  have granted  them increased  agility in  cavernous
environments,  ability to  see better  in darkness  as well  as rudimentary
echolocation.
    Strangely,  Hollow  dwellers  appear  either  extremely  resistant,  or
entirely immune to the effects of the fog. This could potentially be due to
their more direct lineage to the Ashfolk, who themselves were unaffected by
it.

== Culture and traditions ==

The culture and traditions of  the Hollow dwellers remain entirely seperate
from the  culture of the other  species of Nakapa, although  some parts are
based on an "opposite" mindset to wanderish traditions. This is because for
the  most  part of  their  existance,  the  Hollow dwellers  have  believed
themselves to be at war with  "Puppet-Folk", which is usually shorthand for
the parts of Nakapa affected by the Shaping.


=== Beliefs ===

Hollow dweller  beliefs are mainly  centered around the concepts  of "true"
and  "false" worlds.  The former  being  anything connected  to the  Nakapa
before the  Shaping and the latter  being anything connected to  the "Great
Manipulator". Thus Hollow  dweller holy sites are mainly  those posessing a
great amount of fog,  as they believe it to be a part  of the "true world",
as  opposed  to the  "false  world"  represented  by  the Ashtree  and  its
followers.
    However,  definitions  of  "false"  and  "true" as  stark  as  the  one
described  above are  only really  held by  the most  devout of  the Hollow
dwellers, typically living on the shard cluster of the Great Hollow. Hollow
dwellers who  moved away from  it to  Leznakvaiju have either  adopted less
radical  belief or  entirely  abandoned  these beliefs  as  being based  on
nothing but old stories.


== Living ==

Hollow dwellers come from the shard  cluster of Great Hollow, which resides
to the west from the ruins of Moiffe, and it still remains the cluster with
the most  amount of Hollow dwellers.  However, in recent times  many Hollow
dwellers  have chosen  to  move away  from Great  Hollow  and have  instead
settled in Leznakvaiju.
